docs/build-instructions/linux.md, before:

# Linux

Ubuntu LTS 12.04 64-bit is the recommended platform.

## Requirements

  * OS with 64-bit or 32-bit architecture
  * C++ toolchain
  * [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
  * [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (0.10.x or above)
  * [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) v1.4.x or above (automatically bundled with Node.js)
    * `npm -v` to check the version.
    * `npm config set python /usr/bin/python2 -g` to ensure that gyp uses python2.
      * You might need to run this command as `sudo`, depending on how you have set up [npm](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager#ubuntu-mint-elementary-os).
  * development headers for [GNOME Keyring](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GnomeKeyring)

### Ubuntu / Debian

* `sudo apt-get install -y build-essential git libgnome-keyring-dev fakeroot`
* Instructions for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager#debian-and-ubuntu-based-linux-distributions).
  * Make sure the command `node` is available after Node.js installation (some systems install it as `nodejs`).
  * Use `which node` to check if it is available.
  * Use `sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/node node /usr/bin/nodejs 10` to update it.

### Fedora

* `sudo dnf install -y make gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel git-core libgnome-keyring-devel rpmdevtools`
* Instructions for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager#enterprise-linux-and-fedora).

### Fedora

* `sudo yum install -y make gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel git-core libgnome-keyring-devel rpmdevtools`
* Instructions for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager#enterprise-linux-and-fedora).

### Arch

* `sudo pacman -S gconf base-devel git nodejs npm libgnome-keyring python2 --noconfirm --needed`
* `export PYTHON=/usr/bin/python2` before building Atom.

### Slackware

* `sbopkg -k -i node -i atom`

### openSUSE

* `sudo zypper install -y nodejs nodejs-devel make gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel git-core libgnome-keyring-devel rpmdevtools`

## Instructions

If you have problems with permissions don't forget to prefix with `sudo`

1. Clone the Atom repository:

  ```sh
  git clone https://github.com/atom/atom
  cd atom
  ```

2. Checkout the latest Atom release:

  ```sh
  git fetch -p
  git checkout $(git describe --tags `git rev-list --tags --max-count=1`)
  ```

3. Build Atom:

  ```sh
  script/build
  ```

  This will create the atom application at `out/Atom`.

4. Install the `atom` and `apm` commands to `/usr/local/bin` by executing:

  ```sh
  sudo script/grunt install
  ```

  To use the newly installed Atom, quit and restart all running Atom instances. It may be best to install Atom using your package manager instead (as this makes it easier to uninstall and upgrade Atom when you wish to), if possible. See the next section for how to do this on Debian/Red Hat-based distributions. 

5. *Optionally*, you may generate distributable packages of Atom at `out`. Currently, `.deb` and `.rpm` package types are supported, as well as a `.tar.gz` archive. To create a `.deb` package run (which is placed in `out`):

  ```sh
  script/grunt mkdeb
  ```

 You can install this package by running:
 
  ```sh
  sudo dpkg -i atom*.deb
  sudo apt-get -f install
  ```

  To create a `.rpm` package (stored in the `out/rpm` subfolder of the Atom source tree) run

  ```sh
  script/grunt mkrpm
  ```
 
 to install this package, on CentOS / Fedora &leq;21 / Red Hat Enterprise Linux run:
 
  ```sh
  sudo yum localinstall out/rpm/atom*.rpm
  ```
 
 while on Fedora &geq;22 / its derivatives running:
 
  ```sh
  sudo dnf install out/rpm/atom*.rpm
  ```
 
 should install Atom. On openSUSE / other distributions using the ZYpp package manager you can install this RPM package by running:
 
  ```sh
  sudo zypper install out/rpm/atom*.rpm
  ```
 

  To create a `.tar.gz` archive run

  ```sh
  script/grunt mktar
  ```

## Advanced Options

### Custom build directory

```sh
script/build --build-dir /build/atom/here
```

### Custom install directory

To install to a custom location from the standard build directory:

```sh
sudo script/grunt install --install-dir /install/atom/here
```

If you customized your build directory as described above:

```sh
sudo script/grunt install --build-dir /build/atom/here --install-dir /install/atom/here
```

## Troubleshooting

### TypeError: Unable to watch path

If you get following error with a big traceback right after Atom starts:

  ```
  TypeError: Unable to watch path
  ```

you have to increase number of watched files by inotify.  For testing if
this is the reason for this error you can issue

  ```sh
  sudo sysctl fs.inotify.max_user_watches=32768
  ```

and restart Atom.  If Atom now works fine, you can make this setting permanent:

  ```sh
  echo 32768 | sudo tee -a /proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_watches
  ```

See also [#2082](https://github.com/atom/atom/issues/2082).

### /usr/bin/env: node: No such file or directory

If you get this notice when attempting to `script/build`, you either do not
have Node.js installed, or node isn't identified as Node.js on your machine.
If it's the latter, entering `sudo ln -s /usr/bin/nodejs /usr/bin/node` into
your terminal may fix the issue.

#### You can also use Alternatives

On some variants (mostly Debian based distros) it's preferable for you to use
Alternatives so that changes to the binary paths can be fixed or altered easily:

```sh
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/node node /usr/bin/nodejs 1 --slave /usr/bin/js js /usr/bin/nodejs
```

### AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'script_main'

If you get following error with a big traceback while building Atom:

  ```
  sys.exit(gyp.script_main()) AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'script_main' gyp ERR!
  ```

you need to uninstall the system version of gyp.

On Fedora you would do the following:

  ```sh
  sudo yum remove gyp
  ```

### Linux build error reports in atom/atom
* Use [this search](https://github.com/atom/atom/search?q=label%3Abuild-error+label%3Alinux&type=Issues)
  to get a list of reports about build errors on Linux.

Commit message:

Adding details on deps specific to packaging
Adding details on dependencies specific to building packages for Atom. Also generalizing build instructions to derivative distributions.

docs/build-instructions/linux.md, after:

# Linux

Ubuntu LTS 12.04 64-bit is the recommended platform.

## Requirements

  * OS with 64-bit or 32-bit architecture
  * C++ toolchain
  * [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
  * [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (0.10.x or above)
  * [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) v1.4.x or above (automatically bundled with Node.js)
    * `npm -v` to check the version.
    * `npm config set python /usr/bin/python2 -g` to ensure that gyp uses python2.
      * You might need to run this command as `sudo`, depending on how you have set up [npm](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager#ubuntu-mint-elementary-os).
  * development headers for [GNOME Keyring](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GnomeKeyring)

 for packaging:
 
  * `fakeroot` is required to build Debian packages for Atom. 
  * `rpmdevtools` is required to build RPM packages for Atom.

### Debian / Ubuntu / derivatives thereof (e.g., Linux Mint)

* `sudo apt-get install -y build-essential git libgnome-keyring-dev fakeroot`
* Instructions for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager#debian-and-ubuntu-based-linux-distributions).
  * Make sure the command `node` is available after Node.js installation (some systems install it as `nodejs`).
  * Use `which node` to check if it is available.
  * Use `sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/node node /usr/bin/nodejs 10` to update it.

### Fedora &geq;22 / derivatives thereof (e.g., Chapaeu &geq;22 / Korora &geq;22)

* `sudo dnf install -y make gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel git-core libgnome-keyring-devel rpmdevtools`
* Instructions for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager#enterprise-linux-and-fedora).

### CentOS / Fedora &leq;21 / Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) / derivatives thereof

* `sudo yum install -y make gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel git-core libgnome-keyring-devel rpmdevtools`
* Instructions for [Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node-v0.x-archive/wiki/Installing-Node.js-via-package-manager#enterprise-linux-and-fedora).

### Arch Linux / Manjaro Linux / derivatives thereof

* `sudo pacman -S gconf base-devel git nodejs npm libgnome-keyring python2 --noconfirm --needed`
* `export PYTHON=/usr/bin/python2` before building Atom.

### Slackware Linux

* `sbopkg -k -i node -i atom`

### openSUSE / SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES)

* `sudo zypper install -y nodejs nodejs-devel make gcc gcc-c++ glibc-devel git-core libgnome-keyring-devel rpmdevtools`

## Instructions

If you have problems with permissions don't forget to prefix with `sudo`

1. Clone the Atom repository:

  ```sh
  git clone https://github.com/atom/atom
  cd atom
  ```

2. Checkout the latest Atom release:

  ```sh
  git fetch -p
  git checkout $(git describe --tags `git rev-list --tags --max-count=1`)
  ```

3. Build Atom:

  ```sh
  script/build
  ```

  This will create the atom application at `out/Atom`.

4. Install the `atom` and `apm` commands to `/usr/local/bin` by executing:

  ```sh
  sudo script/grunt install
  ```

  To use the newly installed Atom, quit and restart all running Atom instances. It may be best to install Atom using your package manager instead (as this makes it easier to uninstall and upgrade Atom when you wish to), if possible. See the next section for how to do this on Debian/Red Hat-based distributions. 

5. *Optionally*, you may generate distributable packages of Atom at `out`. Currently, `.deb` and `.rpm` package types are supported, as well as a `.tar.gz` archive. To create a Debian (`.deb`) package run (which is placed in `out`):

  ```sh
  script/grunt mkdeb
  ```

 You can install this Debian package by running:
 
  ```sh
  sudo dpkg -i atom*.deb
  sudo apt-get -f install
  ```

  To create a RPM (`.rpm`) package (stored in the `out/rpm` subfolder of the Atom source tree) run

  ```sh
  script/grunt mkrpm
  ```
 
 to install this package, on CentOS / Fedora &leq;21 / Red Hat Enterprise Linux run:
 
  ```sh
  sudo yum localinstall out/rpm/atom*.rpm
  ```
 
 while on Fedora &geq;22 / its derivatives running:
 
  ```sh
  sudo dnf install out/rpm/atom*.rpm
  ```
 
 should install Atom. On openSUSE / SLES you can install this RPM package by running:
 
  ```sh
  sudo zypper install out/rpm/atom*.rpm
  ```

 To create a `.tar.gz` archive run

  ```sh
  script/grunt mktar
  ```

## Advanced Options

### Custom build directory

```sh
script/build --build-dir /build/atom/here
```

### Custom install directory

To install to a custom location from the standard build directory:

```sh
sudo script/grunt install --install-dir /install/atom/here
```

If you customized your build directory as described above:

```sh
sudo script/grunt install --build-dir /build/atom/here --install-dir /install/atom/here
```

## Troubleshooting

### TypeError: Unable to watch path

If you get following error with a big traceback right after Atom starts:

  ```
  TypeError: Unable to watch path
  ```

you have to increase number of watched files by inotify.  For testing if
this is the reason for this error you can issue

  ```sh
  sudo sysctl fs.inotify.max_user_watches=32768
  ```

and restart Atom.  If Atom now works fine, you can make this setting permanent:

  ```sh
  echo 32768 | sudo tee -a /proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_watches
  ```

See also [#2082](https://github.com/atom/atom/issues/2082).

### /usr/bin/env: node: No such file or directory

If you get this notice when attempting to `script/build`, you either do not
have Node.js installed, or node isn't identified as Node.js on your machine.
If it's the latter, entering `sudo ln -s /usr/bin/nodejs /usr/bin/node` into
your terminal may fix the issue.

#### You can also use Alternatives

On some variants (mostly Debian based distros) it's preferable for you to use
Alternatives so that changes to the binary paths can be fixed or altered easily:

```sh
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/node node /usr/bin/nodejs 1 --slave /usr/bin/js js /usr/bin/nodejs
```

### AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'script_main'

If you get following error with a big traceback while building Atom:

  ```
  sys.exit(gyp.script_main()) AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute 'script_main' gyp ERR!
  ```

you need to uninstall the system version of gyp.

On Fedora you would do the following:

  ```sh
  sudo yum remove gyp
  ```

### Linux build error reports in atom/atom
* Use [this search](https://github.com/atom/atom/search?q=label%3Abuild-error+label%3Alinux&type=Issues)
  to get a list of reports about build errors on Linux.
